add sd-jwt vc profile to vci (#128)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

The value of the `credential` claim in the Credential Response MUST be a string that is the base64url-encoded representation of the issued Credential.

## IETF SD-JWT VC

### Format Identifier

The Credential format identifier is `vc+sd-jwt`.

### Credential Issuer Metadata {#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt}

> 

Author: that is fixed by removing client metadata file and adding credential_metadata file.

The following additional Credential Issuer metadata are defined for this Credential format to be added to the `credentials_supported` parameter in addition to those defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters).

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It consists at least of the following three sub elements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the Credential type. It consists at least of the following three sub elements:
```

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It consists at least of the following three sub elements:

Author: ```suggestion
* `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the Credential type. It consists of the following sub elements:
```

>     * `vct`: REQUIRED. JSON string designating the type of a credential as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], Section 4.2.2.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `vct`: REQUIRED. JSON string designating the type of a Credential as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], Section 4.2.2.1.
```

>     * `vct`: REQUIRED. JSON string designating the type of a credential as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], Section 4.2.2.1.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, and given the likelihood of more such changes to ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc (it is relatively immature at -01), it'd probably be better to omit specific section references at this point.

>     * `vct`: REQUIRED. JSON string designating the type of a credential as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], Section 4.2.2.1.

Author: ```suggestion
    * `vct`: REQUIRED. JSON string designating the type of a credential as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc].
```

        * `mandatory`: OPTIONAL. Boolean which when set to `true` indicates the claim MUST be present in the issued Credential. If the `mandatory` property is omitted its default should be assumed to be `false`.
        * `value_type`: OPTIONAL. String value determining type of value of the claim. A non-exhaustive list of valid values defined by this specification are `string`, `number`, and image media types such as `image/jpeg` as defined in IANA media type registry for images (https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml#image).
        * `display`: OPTIONAL. An array of objects, where each object contains display properties of a certain claim in the Credential for a certain language. Below is a non-exhaustive list of valid parameters that MAY be included:
            * `name`: OPTIONAL. String value of a display name for the claim.
            * `locale`: OPTIONAL. String value that identifies language of this object represented as language tag values defined in BCP47 [@!RFC5646]. There MUST be only one object for each language identifier.

> * `order`: OPTIONAL. An array of claims.display.name values that lists them in the order they should be displayed by the Wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `order`: OPTIONAL. An array of `claims.display.name` values that lists them in the order they should be displayed by the Wallet.
```

The following additional claims are defined for authorization details of type `openid_credential` and this Credential format.

* `credential_definition`: REQUIRED.  JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It MUST contain at least `vct` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt). It MAY contain `claims` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt).

The following is a non-normative example of an authorization details object with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/authorization_details_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Request

The following additional parameters are defined for Credential Requests and this Credential format.

* `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It MUST contain at least `vct` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt). It MAY contain `claims` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt).

The following is a non-normative example of a Credential Request with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_request_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Response {#credential_response_jwt_vc_json}

> The value of the `credential` claim in the Credential Response MUST be a JSON string that is an SD-JWT VC. Credentials of this format are already suitable for transfer and, therefore, they need not and MUST NOT be re-encoded.

Reviewer 3: Is "a SD-JWT VC" or "an SD-JWT VC" correct here?

Reviewer 4: An. It's about spoken English and it sounds like Es...

The value of the `credential` claim in the Credential Response MUST be a string that is the base64url-encoded representation of the issued Credential.

> ## IETF SD-JWT VC

Author: I don't see the strong reason to do so - the current sd-jwt vc profile text has been moved from HAIP and it reads ok. keeping the basis as-is.

This section defines a Credential Format Profile for Credentials complying with [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc].

### Format Identifier

The Credential format identifier is `vc+sd-jwt`.

### Credential Issuer Metadata {#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt}

The following additional Credential Issuer metadata are defined for this Credential format to be added to the `credentials_supported` parameter in addition to those defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters).

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the Credential type. It consists of the following sub elements:

Reviewer 5: Not sure why `credential_definition` is needed. I'd remove it.

Author: `credential_definition` was introduced in w3c vcdm examples because of the collision btw `type` claim in VCI and VCDM. there is no such collision in sd-jwt vc (there is `vct` claim instead) so if there is a broader agreement, happy to change, but would like to see more support in this direction before making a change because it is not a small change.

Reviewer 5: `credential_definition` is unnecessary bloat. We should remove it.

Reviewer 6: I agree it complicates the SD JWT VC profile in a way I dont see we get any value from.

Reviewer 7: As per chat with Kristina/Daniel/Paul/Christian we thought we might as well remove credential_definition before this is merged.

Author: removed

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. Object containing the detailed description of the Credential type. It consists of the following sub elements:
>     * `vct`: REQUIRED. String designating the type of a Credential as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc].
>     * `claims`: OPTIONAL. Object containing a list of name/value pairs, where each name identifies a claim offered in the Credential. The value can be another such object (nested data structures), or an array of such objects. To express the specifics about the claim, the most deeply nested value MAY be an object that includes a following non-exhaustive list of parameters defined by this specification:
>         * `mandatory`: OPTIONAL. Boolean which when set to `true` indicates the claim MUST be present in the issued Credential. If the `mandatory` property is omitted its default should be assumed to be `false`.
>         * `value_type`: OPTIONAL. String value determining type of value of the claim. A non-exhaustive list of valid values defined by this specification are `string`, `number`, and image media types such as `image/jpeg` as defined in IANA media type registry for images (https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml#image).
>         * `display`: OPTIONAL. Array of objects, where each object contains display properties of a certain claim in the Credential for a certain language. Below is a non-exhaustive list of valid parameters that MAY be included:
>             * `name`: OPTIONAL. String value of a display name for the claim.
>             * `locale`: OPTIONAL. String value that identifies language of this object represented as language tag values defined in BCP47 [@!RFC5646]. There MUST be only one object for each language identifier.
> * `order`: OPTIONAL. An array of the claim name values that lists them in the order they should be displayed by the Wallet.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* `vct`: REQUIRED. String designating the type of a Credential as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc].
* `claims`: OPTIONAL. Object containing a list of name/value pairs, where each name identifies a claim offered in the Credential. The value can be another such object (nested data structures), or an array of such objects. To express the specifics about the claim, the most deeply nested value MAY be an object that includes a following non-exhaustive list of parameters defined by this specification:
    * `mandatory`: OPTIONAL. Boolean which when set to `true` indicates the claim MUST be present in the issued Credential. If the `mandatory` property is omitted its default should be assumed to be `false`.
    * `value_type`: OPTIONAL. String value determining type of value of the claim. A non-exhaustive list of valid values defined by this specification are `string`, `number`, and image media types such as `image/jpeg` as defined in IANA media type registry for images (https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml#image).
    * `display`: OPTIONAL. Array of objects, where each object contains display properties of a certain claim in the Credential for a certain language. Below is a non-exhaustive list of valid parameters that MAY be included:
        * `name`: OPTIONAL. String value of a display name for the claim.
        * `locale`: OPTIONAL. String value that identifies language of this object represented as language tag values defined in BCP47 [@!RFC5646]. There MUST be only one object for each language identifier.
* `order`: OPTIONAL. An array of the claim name values that lists them in the order they should be displayed by the Wallet.
```
```

Reviewer 8: Since the proposal is on the table to remove credential_definition I would like to raise another question: why do we treat `vct` special and do not put it underneath `claims`? I think it is desirable to have the metadata be as close as possible to the actual credential structure and `vct` will be just another claim in the SD-JWT VC. 

I would assume we do so because `vct` plays a special role in the request of a credential and `claims` is meant to contain actual user claims, that's why we have the display stuff there. If that's the case, I think we should designate that container as `user_claims`.

Author: I am confused what is your suggestion in this comment, Torsten. keep `vct` and `claims` as parameters at the same level, but rename `claims` parameter to `user_claims`?

Reviewer 8: Well, I guess we can agree that neither vct nor iat or exp or iss should turn up here. How do you want to convey that?
At least the text must be clear on that.

Reviewer 9: Would `custom_claims` be a good name for the additional _usage-specific_ claims, that aren't defined by the base JWT spec or the SD-JWT spec.

Author: discussed in the DCP WG call - agreed not to rename the parameter name and clarify that the claims are about the subject and not the JWT itself. @Sakurann or @awoie to make a suggestion. good to merge after that.

> * `order`: OPTIONAL. An array of `claims.display.name` values that lists them in the order they should be displayed by the Wallet.

Author: done.

> The following is a non-normative example of an object comprising `credentials_supported` parameter of Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of a Credential Issuer Metadata parameter comprising `credentials_supported` parameter of Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.
```

Author: i would prefer keeping this text consistent with the rest of Annex E.

<{{examples/credential_metadata_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

> ### Credential Offer

Reviewer 8: you know my opinion, there is nothing format specific in credential offers, so I suggest to remove this section.

The following is a non-normative example of a Credential Offer of Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_offer_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Authorization Details {#authorization_vc_sd-jwt}

The following additional claims are defined for authorization details of type `openid_credential` and this Credential format.

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. Object containing the detailed description of the Credential type. It MUST contain at least `vct` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt). It MAY contain `claims` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt).

Reviewer 8: `credential_definition` needs to be removed here as well

The following is a non-normative example of an authorization details object with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/authorization_details_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Request

The following additional parameters are defined for Credential Requests and this Credential format.

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. Object containing the detailed description of the Credential type. It MUST contain at least `vct` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt). It MAY contain `claims` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt).

Reviewer 8: `credential_definition` needs to be removed here as well

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. Object containing the detailed description of the Credential type. It MUST contain at least `vct` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt). It MAY contain `claims` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt).

Author: good call - clarified to "REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` is not used"

The following is a non-normative example of a Credential Request with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_request_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Response {#credential_response_jwt_vc_json}

> The value of the `credential` claim in the Credential Response MUST be a JSON string that is an SD-JWT VC. Credentials of this format are already suitable for transfer and, therefore, they need not and MUST NOT be re-encoded.

Reviewer 7: Done! https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/128/commits/c33b9c51b0db9e4e5388a47fd1d3c97cfdc2fb50

> The value of the `credential` claim in the Credential Response MUST be a JSON string that is an SD-JWT VC. Credentials of this format are already suitable for transfer and, therefore, they need not and MUST NOT be re-encoded.

Author: thank you!

The following additional parameters are defined for Credential Requests and this Credential format.  

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` was not present in the Credential Request. MUST NOT be used otherwise. Object containing the detailed description of the Credential type. It consists at least of the following sub claims:

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* `credential_definition`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` is not present in the Credential Request. MUST NOT be used otherwise. Object containing the detailed description of the Credential type. It consists at least of the following sub claims:
```

* `order`: OPTIONAL. An array of the claim name values that lists them in the order they should be displayed by the Wallet.

The following is a non-normative example of an object comprising `credentials_supported` parameter of Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_metadata_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Authorization Details {#authorization_sd_jwt_vc}

The following additional claims are defined for authorization details of type `openid_credential` and this Credential format.

* `vct`: REQUIRED. String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type values the Wallet requests authorization for at the Credential Issuer.
* `claims`: OPTIONAL. An object as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc).

The following is a non-normative example of an authorization details object with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/authorization_details_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Request

The following additional parameters are defined for Credential Requests and this Credential format.

> * `vct`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` is not used. String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type values the Wallet requests authorization for at the Credential Issuer.

Reviewer 6: Do we need to clearer about when VCT and credential_identifier are both present in a credential request? Does one need to take precedent, what if they conflict?

Author: If we do, I think it should be clarified when addressing issue #132. 

the clarification should also be in this section that defines the behavior of credential request https://openid.github.io/OpenID4VCI/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-wg-draft.html#name-credential-request, so this is probably out of scope of this PR.

the current thinking has been that both format specific claims and credential_identifier can be present since it is possible to use both scopes and RAR in the same authz request

Reviewer 8: I cannot think of any case where both, the credential_identifier and the `vct` could be in the same request, so this should be a MUST NOT if `credential_identifier` is present. 

The credential request text already states "When this parameter is used, the `format` parameter and any other Credential format specific set of parameters such as those defined in (#format_profiles) MUST NOT be present."

Additionally, I'm not sure these requirements should be stated in a profile as the interplay between credential_identifier and format+format specific type information is subject to the core spec. I think the profile should state something like: "`vct`: determines the type of a credential of this format, might also be used in credential request ..."

Author: Right. I confused the ability to use both for the same credential - we still currently support using RAR for one credential and format/type for another with the same access token.

This came up because 'vct' is mandatory when format/type is used but must not be present when credential_identifier is used. So honestly, I would suggest that current language works ok.

> * `vct`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` is not used. String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type values the Wallet requests authorization for at the Credential Issuer.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* `vct`: String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type values the Wallet requests authorization for at the Credential Issuer. This claim MUST NOT be present if the `credential_identifier` is present in the request. 
```

Author: I clarified for all other credential formats, too.

The following additional parameters are defined for Credential Requests and this Credential format.  

> * `doctype`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` was not present in the Credential Request. MUST NOT be used otherwise. String as defined in (#server_metadata_mso_mdoc). The Credential issued by the Credential Issuer MUST at least contain the values listed in this claim.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* `doctype`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` is not present in the Credential Request. MUST NOT be used otherwise. String as defined in (#server_metadata_mso_mdoc). The Credential issued by the Credential Issuer MUST at least contain the values listed in this claim.
```

The value of the `credential` claim in the Credential Response MUST be a string that is the base64url-encoded representation of the issued Credential.

## IETF SD-JWT VC

This section defines a Credential Format Profile for Credentials complying with [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc].

### Format Identifier

The Credential format identifier is `vc+sd-jwt`.

### Credential Issuer Metadata {#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc}

> The following additional Credential Issuer metadata parameters are defined for this Credential format to be added to the `credentials_supported` parameter in addition to those defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters).

Reviewer 5: This will conflict with with the `credential_configurations_supported` change.

Author: how?

* `order`: OPTIONAL. An array of the claim name values that lists them in the order they should be displayed by the Wallet.

The following is a non-normative example of an object comprising `credentials_supported` parameter of Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_metadata_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Authorization Details {#authorization_sd_jwt_vc}

The following additional claims are defined for authorization details of type `openid_credential` and this Credential format.

* `vct`: REQUIRED. String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type values the Wallet requests authorization for at the Credential Issuer.
* `claims`: OPTIONAL. An object as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc).

The following is a non-normative example of an authorization details object with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/authorization_details_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Request

The following additional parameters are defined for Credential Requests and this Credential format.

> * `vct`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` was not present in the Credential Request. MUST NOT be used otherwise. String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type values the Wallet requests authorization for at the Credential Issuer.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* `vct`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` is not present in the Credential Request. MUST NOT be used otherwise. String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type values the Wallet requests authorization for at the Credential Issuer.
```

> * `vct`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` was not present in the Credential Request. MUST NOT be used otherwise. String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type values the Wallet requests authorization for at the Credential Issuer.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* `vct`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` was not present in the Credential Request. MUST NOT be used otherwise. String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type value of the Credential the Wallet requests the Credential Issuer to issue.
```

> * `vct`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` was not present in the Credential Request. MUST NOT be used otherwise. String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type values the Wallet requests authorization for at the Credential Issuer.

Author: ```suggestion
* `vct`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` is not present in the Credential Request. MUST NOT be used otherwise. String as defined in (#server_metadata_sd_jwt_vc). This claim contains the type value of the Credential the Wallet requests the Credential Issuer to issue.
```
